.TH gpal 1 "(c)  2003, 2004 Craig Franklin"
.SH NAME
gpal - GNU PIC Algorithmic Language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpal [options] file
.SH WARNING
The information in this man page is an extract from the full documentation of
gputils and is limited to the meaning of the options.  For complete and 
current documentation, refer to "gputils.ps" located in the gputils docs 
directory.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gpal
is a compiler for Microchip (TM) PIC (TM) micro-controllers.
.B gpal
is part of gputils.  Check the gputils(1) manpage for details on other GNU 
PIC utilities.
.SH OPTIONS
Below is a summary of the
.B gpal 
options.
.B gpal
options always supersede any settings in the source code.
.TP
.B -a, --archive
Compile or assemble, then archive.
.TP
.B -c, --object
Compile or assemble, but don't link.
.TP
.B -d, --debug
Output debug messages.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show this usage message.
.TP
.B -H FILE, --header FILE
Scan the specified processor header file.
.TP
.B -I DIR, --include DIR
Specify include directory.
.TP
.B -k "OPT", --options "OPT"
Extra link or lib options.
.TP
.B -l, --list-chips
List supported processors.
.TP
.B -o FILE, --output FILE
Alternate name of output file.
.TP
.B -O OPT, --optimize OPT
Optimization level [1].
.TP
.B -p PROC, --processor PROC
Select processor.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Quiet.
.TP
.B -S, --compile
Compile only, don't assemble or link.
.TP
.B -t, --save-temps
Do not delete intermediate files.
.TP
.B -v, --version
Show version.
.SH SEE ALSO
gputils(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Craig Franklin <craigfranklin@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Craig Franklin

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
